developer-guide.md, before:

# Developer Guidelines

## NEXT.js (app router)

Nextjs is a full-stack web application framework built on top of React that utilizes server-side rendering (SSR).

Please read the following texts:

(1) https://nextjs.org/learn/react-foundations/what-is-react-and-nextjs (currently, 10 chapters)

(2) https://nextjs.org/learn/dashboard-app/getting-started (currently, 16 chapters)

Documentation: https://nextjs.org/docs

Please note:

(1) We're using Auth.js (https://authjs.dev/) for authentication/authorization; as per the docs: "You should not rely on middleware exclusively for authorization. Always ensure that the session is verified as close to your data fetching as possible." Therefore, a suggested guideline is that functions that read from the database always call `auth()` and use the returned user information to condition access (see `app/usersExample/lib/data.ts`).

(2) Nextjs actions, as defined by the `"use server"` directive, expose endpoints for users to call, and so they must also be protected in the same way outlined above. Please note that arguments that are bound server-side to an action will also be exposed to users if the action is used in a client component.

(3) Suggested project structure: For each view, there may be a directory with a `lib` folder, and inside that `lib` folder there may be a `data.ts` file for functions that read from the database, an `actions.ts` file for mutations, a `components` folder for client/helping components, and a `utils` folder for utility functions (see `app/usersExample/*`). There is also an uppermost `lib` directory for common pieces of code (with the same sub-files and sub-directories mentioned above).

## Prisma

Prisma is an ORM; we use it with PostgreSQL.

Documentation: https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm

Please note:

(1) In the original ZEVA app, we experienced some scalability issues; please read the following article on query optimization on how to avoid such issues: https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-client/queries/query-optimization-performance. Please note that the `relationLoadStrategy: "join"` configuration has been applied globally in `schema.prisma`.

(2) During early development, we will use `prisma db push` and `prisma db pull` to avoid an excess of migrations that will have to be squashed later; we will, of course, transition to migrations once the schema is more fully built out.

(3) In `package.json`, there are scripts that utilize Prisma commands; in particular, each time a developer locally starts the `next` container, the contents of their `schema.prisma` file will be pushed to the database, and a tailored database client will be generated (`prisma/generated/*`).

(4) In order to seed the zeva2 database with data from the original zeva (zeva1) database, your `next` container, zeva2 db container, and your zeva1 db container all have to be running. Once that is the case, execute `npm run seedFromOldDB` in your `next` container. The seeding implementation is defined in `prisma/seed.ts`; please build this file out as you develop the zeva2 schema.

(5) During development, database queries are logged; please keep an eye on them as you develop to ensure your code is not generating an excessive number of queries, or returning data you don't need.

## TypeScript

We're using TypeScript!

Docs: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/intro.html

Please note:

(1) TypeScript will have to be installed outside of your `next` container in order for you to experience, in a TypeScript project, the VS code IntelliSense features (code completion, navigation, errors/warnings, etc.). In the `zeva2` project folder outside of your container, you can execute `npm install` to install TypeScript outside of the container.

## Styling

We're using Tailwind CSS.

You can find the custom colours defined in tailwind.config.ts.

Docs: https://tailwindcss.com/docs/styling-with-utility-classes

## Formatting

We're using Prettier; in the `/next` working directory of your `next` container, execute `npx prettier --write .` to format your source code.

Docs: https://prettier.io/docs/

## Queue System

Coming soon - perhaps BullMQ? (https://docs.bullmq.io/)

## DevOps

Coming soon!

Commit message:

update devops section in developer-guide

developer-guide.md, after:

# Developer Guidelines

## NEXT.js (app router)

Nextjs is a full-stack web application framework built on top of React that utilizes server-side rendering (SSR).

Please read the following texts:

(1) https://nextjs.org/learn/react-foundations/what-is-react-and-nextjs (currently, 10 chapters)

(2) https://nextjs.org/learn/dashboard-app/getting-started (currently, 16 chapters)

Documentation: https://nextjs.org/docs

Please note:

(1) We're using Auth.js (https://authjs.dev/) for authentication/authorization; as per the docs: "You should not rely on middleware exclusively for authorization. Always ensure that the session is verified as close to your data fetching as possible." Therefore, a suggested guideline is that functions that read from the database always call `auth()` and use the returned user information to condition access (see `app/usersExample/lib/data.ts`).

(2) Nextjs actions, as defined by the `"use server"` directive, expose endpoints for users to call, and so they must also be protected in the same way outlined above. Please note that arguments that are bound server-side to an action will also be exposed to users if the action is used in a client component.

(3) Suggested project structure: For each view, there may be a directory with a `lib` folder, and inside that `lib` folder there may be a `data.ts` file for functions that read from the database, an `actions.ts` file for mutations, a `components` folder for client/helping components, and a `utils` folder for utility functions (see `app/usersExample/*`). There is also an uppermost `lib` directory for common pieces of code (with the same sub-files and sub-directories mentioned above).

## Prisma

Prisma is an ORM; we use it with PostgreSQL.

Documentation: https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm

Please note:

(1) In the original ZEVA app, we experienced some scalability issues; please read the following article on query optimization on how to avoid such issues: https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-client/queries/query-optimization-performance. Please note that the `relationLoadStrategy: "join"` configuration has been applied globally in `schema.prisma`.

(2) During early development, we will use `prisma db push` and `prisma db pull` to avoid an excess of migrations that will have to be squashed later; we will, of course, transition to migrations once the schema is more fully built out.

(3) In `package.json`, there are scripts that utilize Prisma commands; in particular, each time a developer locally starts the `next` container, the contents of their `schema.prisma` file will be pushed to the database, and a tailored database client will be generated (`prisma/generated/*`).

(4) In order to seed the zeva2 database with data from the original zeva (zeva1) database, your `next` container, zeva2 db container, and your zeva1 db container all have to be running. Once that is the case, execute `npm run seedFromOldDB` in your `next` container. The seeding implementation is defined in `prisma/seed.ts`; please build this file out as you develop the zeva2 schema.

(5) During development, database queries are logged; please keep an eye on them as you develop to ensure your code is not generating an excessive number of queries, or returning data you don't need.

## TypeScript

We're using TypeScript!

Docs: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/intro.html

Please note:

(1) TypeScript will have to be installed outside of your `next` container in order for you to experience, in a TypeScript project, the VS code IntelliSense features (code completion, navigation, errors/warnings, etc.). In the `next` project folder outside of your container, you can execute `npm install` to install TypeScript outside of the container.

## Styling

We're using Tailwind CSS.

You can find the custom colours defined in tailwind.config.ts.

Docs: https://tailwindcss.com/docs/styling-with-utility-classes

## Formatting

We're using Prettier; in the `/next` working directory of your `next` container, execute `npx prettier --write .` to format your source code.

Docs: https://prettier.io/docs/

## Queue System

Coming soon - perhaps BullMQ? (https://docs.bullmq.io/)

## DevOps

Suggested Dockerfile build steps, which assumes a base node image; in development, we're currently using node 22.13.1:

(1) Copy over the contents of zeva2/next
(2) Install dependencies (`npm install`); should only need non-dev dependencies.
(3) Execute `npm run generatePrismaSchema`.
(4) Execute `npm run build`.
(5) Expose port 3000.
(6) Set `npm run start` as the startup command (using, for example, CMD).

Deployment notes:

(1) Once the database container is running, we will need to execute, in an equivalent environment
outlined in the build steps above (one with the dependencies installed): `npm run pushSchemaToDB`.
This command creates/updates database tables; this command will be replaced with a command
that applies database migrations once the schema is more fully built out.

(2) Environment variables: please see the `environment` section under the `next` service of the
`docker-compose` file. Please note that the `DATABASE_URL` and `DATABASE_URL_OLD` connection strings
have the format: `postgresql://{db_username}:{db_password}@{db_hostname_or_ip_address}:{db_port}/{db_name}?schema={db_schema_name}`
In order for the `next` app to connect to the old zeva database, a network policy will probably have to be created;
the `next` app's access to the old database should be read-only.
